Category: Arrays and Strings

Write code to reverse a String
EXAMPLE
Input: "Mocktok"
Output: "kotkcoM"
FORMAT
public String reverse(String s) { }

Category: Linked Lists

Write code to remove duplicates from an unsorted linked list
FOLLOW UP
How would you solve this problem if a temporary buffer is not allowed?

Implement an algorithm to find the nth to last element of a singly linked list

Implement an algorithm to delete a node in the middle of a single linked list, given only access to that node
EXAMPLE
Input: the node ‘c’ from the linked list a->b->c->d->e
Result: nothing is returned, but the new linked list looks like a->b->d->e

You have two numbers represented by a linked list, where each node contains a single digit. The digits are stored in reverse order, such that the 1’s digit is at the head of the list. Write a function that adds the two numbers and returns the sum as a linked list
EXAMPLE
Input: (3 -> 1 -> 5) + (5 -> 9 -> 2)
Output: 8 -> 0 -> 8

Given a circular linked list, implement an algorithm which returns node at the beginning of the loop
DEFINITION
Circular linked list: A (corrupt) linked list in which a node’s next pointer points to an earlier node, so as to make a loop in the linked list
EXAMPLE
input: A -> B -> C -> D -> E -> C [the same C as earlier]
output: C

Category: Stacks and Queues

Describe how you could use a single array to implement three stacks

How would you design a stack which, in addition to push and pop, also has a function min which returns the minimum element? Push, pop and min should all operate in O(1) time

Imagine a (literal) stack of plates If the stack gets too high, it might topple. Therefore, in real life, we would likely start a new stack when the previous stack exceeds some threshold. Implement a data structure SetOfStacks that mimics this SetOfStacks should be composed of several stacks, and should create a new stack once the previous one exceeds capacity SetOfStacks push() and SetOfStacks pop() should behave identically to a single stack (that is, pop() should return the same values as it would if there were just a single stack)
FOLLOW UP
Implement a function popAt(int index) which performs a pop operation on a specific sub-stack

In the classic problem of the Towers of Hanoi, you have 3 rods and N disks of different sizes which can slide on to any tower. The puzzle starts with disks sorted in ascending order of size from top to bottom (e.g., each disk sits on top of an even larger one). You have the following constraints:
(A) Only one disk can be moved at a time
(B) A disk is slid off the top of one rod onto the next rod
(C) A disk can only be placed on top of a larger disk
Write a program to move the disks from the first rod to the last using Stacks

Implement a MyQueue class which implements a queue using two stacks

Write a program to sort a stack in ascending order. You should not make any assumptions about how the stack is implemented. The following are the only functions that should be used to write this program: push | pop | peek | isEmpty

Category: Trees and Graphs

Implement a function to check if a tree is balanced. For the purposes of this question, a balanced tree is defined to be a tree such that no two leaf nodes differ in distance from the root by more than one

Given a directed graph, design an algorithm to find out whether there is a route between two nodes

Given a sorted (increasing order) array, write an algorithm to create a binary tree with minimal height

Given a binary search tree, design an algorithm which creates a linked list of all the nodes at each depth (i.e., if you have a tree with depth D, you’ll have D linked lists)

Write an algorithm to find the ‘next’ node (i.e., in-order successor) of a given node in a binary search tree where each node has a link to its parent

Design an algorithm and write code to find the first common ancestor of two nodes in a binary tree. Avoid storing additional nodes in a data structure. NOTE: This is not necessarily a binary search tree

You have two very large binary trees: T1, with millions of nodes, and T2, with hundreds of nodes. Create an algorithm to decide if T2 is a subtree of T1

You are given a binary tree in which each node contains a value. Design an algorithm to print all paths which sum up to that value. Note that it can be any path in the tree - it does not have to start at the root

Category: Bit Manipulation

You are given two 32-bit numbers, N and M, and two bit positions, i and j. Write a method to set all bits between i and j in N equal to M (e.g., M becomes a substring of N located at i and starting at j)
EXAMPLE:
Input: N = 10000000000, M = 10101, i = 2, j = 6
Output: N = 10001010100

Given a (decimal - e.g. 3.72) number that is passed in as a string, print the binary representation. If the number can not be represented accurately in binary, print “ERROR”

Given an integer, print the next smallest and next largest number that have the same number of 1 bits in their binary representation

Explain what the following code does: ((n & (n-1)) == 0)

Write a function to determine the number of bits required to convert integer A to integer B
Input: 31, 14 Output: 2

Write a program to swap odd and even bits in an integer with as few instructions as possible (e.g., bit 0 and bit 1 are swapped, bit 2 and bit 3 are swapped, etc)

An array A[1...n] contains all the integers from 0 to n except for one number which is missing. In this problem, we cannot access an entire integer in A with a single operation. The elements of A are represented in binary, and the only operation we can use to access them is “fetch the jth bit of A[i]”, which takes constant time Write code to find the missing integer Can you do it in O(n) time?

Category: Brain Teasers

Add arithmetic operators (plus, minus, times, divide) to make the following expression true: 3 1 3 6 = 8 You can use any parentheses you’d like

There is an 8x8 chess board in which two diagonally opposite corners have been cut off. You are given 31 dominos, and a single domino can cover exactly two squares. Can you use the 31 dominos to cover the entire board? Prove your answer (by providing an example, or showing why it’s impossible)

You have a five quart jug and a three quart jug, and an unlimited supply of water (but no measuring cups). How would you come up with exactly four quarts of water?
NOTE: The jugs are oddly shaped, such that filling up exactly ‘half’ of the jug would be impossible

A bunch of men are on an island. A genie comes down and gathers everyone together and places a magical hat on some people’s heads (i.e., at least one person has a hat). The hat is magical: it can be seen by other people, but not by the wearer of the hat himself. To remove the hat, those (and only those who have a hat) must dunk themselves underwater at exactly midnight. If there are n people and c hats, how long does it take the men to remove the hats? The men cannot tell each other (in any way) that they have a hat.
FOLLOW UP
Prove that your solution is correct

There is a building of 100 floors. If an egg drops from the Nth floor or above it will break. If it’s dropped from any floor below, it will not break You’re given 2 eggs Find N, while minimizing the number of drops for the worst case

There are one hundred closed lockers in a hallway. A man begins by opening all one hundred lockers. Next, he closes every second locker. Then he goes to every third locker and closes it if it is open or opens it if it is closed (e.g., he toggles every third locker). After his one hundredth pass in the hallway, in which he toggles only locker number one hundred, how many lockers are open?

Category: Object Oriented Design

Design the data structures for a generic deck of cards. Explain how you would sub-class it to implement particular card games

Imagine you have a call center with three levels of employees: fresher, technical lead (TL), product manager (PM). There can be multiple employees, but only one TL or PM. An incoming telephone call must be allocated to a fresher who is free. If a fresher can’t handle the call, he or she must escalate the call to technical lead. If the TL is not free or not able to handle it, then the call should be escalated to PM. Design the classes and data structures for this problem Implement a method getCallHandler()

Design a musical juke box using object oriented principles

Design a chess game using object oriented principles

Design the data structures for an online book reader system

Implement a jigsaw puzzle Design the data structures and explain an algorithm to solve the puzzle

Explain how you would design a chat server. In particular, provide details about the various backend components, classes, and methods What would be the hardest problems to solve?

Othello is played as follows: Each Othello piece is white on one side and black on the other. When a piece is surrounded by its opponents on both the left and right sides, or both the top and bottom, it is said to be captured and its color is flipped On your turn, you must capture at least one of your opponent’s pieces. The game ends when either user has no more valid moves, and the win is assigned to the person with the most pieces. Implement the object oriented design for Othello

Explain the data structures and algorithms that you would use to design an in-memory file system. Illustrate with an example in code where possible

Describe the data structures and algorithms that you would use to implement a garbage collector in C++

Category: Recursion

Write a method to generate the nth Fibonacci number

Imagine a robot sitting on the upper left hand corner of an NxN grid. The robot can only move in two directions: right and down How many possible paths are there for the robot?
FOLLOW UP
Imagine certain squares are “off limits”, such that the robot can not step on them. Design an algorithm to get all possible paths for the robot

Write a method that returns all subsets of a set

Write a method to compute all permutations of a string

Implement an algorithm to print all valid (e.g., properly opened and closed) combinations of n-pairs of parentheses
EXAMPLE:
input: 3 (e.g., 3 pairs of parentheses)
output: ()()(), ()(()), (())(), ((()))

Implement the “paint fill” function that one might see on many image editing programs. That is, given a screen (represented by a 2 dimensional array of Colors), a point, and a new color, fill in the surrounding area until you hit a border of that color

Given an infinite number of quarters (25 cents), dimes (10 cents), nickels (5 cents) and pennies (1 cent), write code to calculate the number of ways of representing n cents

Write an algorithm to print all ways of arranging eight queens on a chess board so that none of them share the same row, column or diagonal

Category: Sorting and Searching

You are given two sorted arrays, A and B, and A has a large enough buffer at the end to hold B. Write a method to merge B into A in sorted order

Write a method to sort an array of strings so that all the anagrams are next to each other

Given a sorted array of n integers that has been rotated an unknown number of times, give an O(log n) algorithm that finds an element in the array. You may assume that the array was originally sorted in increasing order
EXAMPLE:
Input: find 5 in array (15 16 19 20 25 1 3 4 5 7 10 14)
Output: 8 (the index of 5 in the array)

If you have a 2 GB file with one string per line, which sorting algorithm would you use to sort the file and why?

Given a sorted array of strings which is interspersed with empty strings, write a method to find the location of a given string
Example: find “ball” in [“at”, “”, “”, “”, “ball”, “”, “”, “car”, “”, “”, “dad”, “”, “”] will return 4
Example: find “ballcar” in [“at”, “”, “”, “”, “”, “ball”, “car”, “”, “”, “dad”, “”, “”] will return -1

Given a matrix in which each row and each column is sorted, write a method to find an element in it

A circus is designing a tower routine consisting of people standing atop one another’s shoulders For practical and aesthetic reasons, each person must be both shorter and lighter than the person below him or her Given the heights and weights of each person in the circus, write a method to compute the largest possible number of people in such a tower
EXAMPLE:
Input (ht, wt): (65, 100) (70, 150) (56, 90) (75, 190) (60, 95) (68, 110)
Output: The longest tower is length 6 and includes from top to bottom: (56, 90) (60,95) (65,100) (68,110) (70,150) (75,190)

Category: Mathematical

You have a basketball hoop and someone says that you can play 1 of 2 games
Game #1: You get one shot to make the hoop
Game #2: You get three shots and you have to make 2 of 3 shots
If p is the probability of making a particular shot, for which values of p should you pick one game or the other?

There are three ants on different vertices of a triangle. What is the probability of collision (between any two or all of them) if they start walking on the sides of the triangle?
Similarly find the probability of collision with ‘n’ ants on an ‘n’ vertex polygon

Given two lines on a Cartesian plane, determine whether the two lines would intersect

Write a method to implement *, - , / operations. You should use only the + operator

Given two squares on a two dimensional plane, find a line that would cut these two squares in half

Given a two dimensional graph with points on it, find a line which passes the most number of points

Design an algorithm to find the kth number such that the only prime factors are 3, 5, and 7

Category: Testing

Find the mistake(s) in the following code:
1 unsigned int i;
2 for(i=100;i<=0;--i) 
3 printf(“%d\n”, i);

You are given the source to an application which crashes when it is run. After running it ten times in a debugger, you find it never crashes in the same place. The application is single threaded, and uses only the C standard library. What programming errors could be causing this crash? How would you test each one?

We have the following method used in a chess game: boolean canMoveTo(int x, int y) x and y are the coordinates of the chess board and it returns whether or not the piece can move to that position. Explain how you would test this method

How would you load test a webpage without using any test tools?

How would you test a pen?

How would you test an ATM in a distributed banking system?

Category: Memory Limits

If you were integrating a feed of end of day stock price information (open, high, low, and closing price) for 5,000 companies, how would you do it? You are responsible for the development, rollout and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of the feed. Describe the different methods you considered and why you would recommend your approach. The feed is delivered once per trading day in a comma-separated format via an FTP site. The feed will be used by 1000 daily users in a web application

How would you design the data structures for a very large social network (Facebook, LinkedIn, etc)? Describe how you would design an algorithm to show the connection, or path, between two people (e.g., Me -> Bob -> Susan -> Jason -> You)

Given an input file with four billion integers, provide an algorithm to generate an integer which is not contained in the file. Assume you have 1 GB of memory
FOLLOW UP
What if you have only 10 MB of memory?

You have an array with all the numbers from 1 to N, where N is at most 32,000. The array may have duplicate entries and you do not know what N is. With only 4KB of memory available, how would you print all duplicate elements in the array?

If you were designing a web crawler, how would you avoid getting into infinite loops?

You have a billion urls, where each is a huge page How do you detect the duplicate documents?

You have to design a database that can store terabytes of data. It should support efficient range queries How would you do it?

Category: C++

Write a method to print the last K lines of an input file using C++

Compare and contrast a hash table vs an STL map How is a hash table implemented? If the number of inputs is small, what data structure options can be used instead of a hash table?

How do virtual functions work in C++?

What is the difference between deep copy and shallow copy? Explain how you would use each

What is the significance of the keyword “volatile” in C?

What is name hiding in C++?

Why does a destructor in base class need to be declared virtual?

Write a method that takes a pointer to a Node structure as a parameter and returns a complete copy of the passed-in data structure. The Node structure contains two pointers to other Node structures

Write a smart pointer (smart_ptr) class

Category: Java

In terms of inheritance, what is the effect of keeping a constructor private?

In Java, does the finally block gets executed if we insert a return statement inside the try block of a try-catch-finally?

What is the difference between final, finally, and finalize?

Explain the difference between templates in C++ and generics in Java

Explain what object reflection is in Java and why it is useful

Suppose you are using a map in your program, how would you count the number of times the program calls the put() and get() functions?

Category: Databases

Write a method to find the number of employees in each department

What are the different types of joins? Please explain how they differ and why certain types are better in certain situations

What is denormalization? Explain the pros and cons

Draw an entity-relationship diagram for a database with companies, people, and professionals (people who work for companies)

Imagine a simple database storing information for students’ grades. Design what this database might look like, and provide a SQL query to return a list of the honor roll students (top 10%), sorted by their grade point average

Category: Low Level

Explain the following terms: virtual memory, page fault, thrashing

What is a Branch Target buffer? Explain how it can be used in reducing bubble cycles in cases of branch misprediction

Describe direct memory access (DMA). Can a user level buffer/pointer be used by kernel or drivers?

Write a step by step execution of things that happen after a user presses a key on the keyboard. Use as much detail as possible

Write a program to find whether a machine is big endian or little endian

Discuss how would you make sure that a process doesn’t access an unauthorized part of the stack

What are the best practices to prevent reverse engineering of DLLs?

A device boots with an empty FIFO queue. In the first 400 ns period after startup, and in each subsequent 400 ns period, a maximum of 80 words will be written to the queue. Each write takes 4 ns A worker thread requires 3 ns to read a word, and 2 ns to process it before reading the next word. What is the shortest depth of the FIFO such that no data is lost?

Write an aligned malloc & free function that takes number of bytes and aligned byte (which is always power of 2)
EXAMPLE
align_malloc (1000,128) will return a memory address that is a multiple of 128 and that points to memory of size 1000 bytes
aligned_free() will free memory allocated by align_malloc

Write a function called my2DAlloc which allocates a two dimensional array Minimize the number of calls to malloc and make sure that the memory is accessible by the notation arr[i][j]

Category: Networking

Explain what happens, step by step, after you type a URL into a browser. Use as much detail as possible

Explain any common routing protocol in detail. For example: BGP, OSPF, RIP

Compare and contrast the IPv4 and IPv6 protocols

What is a network / subnet mask? Explain how host A sends a message/packet to host B when: (a) both are on same network and (b) both are on different networks. Explain which layer makes the routing decision and how

What are the differences between TCP and UDP? Explain how TCP handles reliable delivery (explain ACK mechanism), flow control (explain TCP sender’s/receiver’s window) and congestion control

Category: Threads and Locks

What’s the difference between a thread and a process?

How can you measure the time spent in a context switch?

Implement a singleton design pattern as a template such that, for any given class Foo, you can call Singleton::instance() and get a pointer to an instance of a singleton of type Foo. Assume the existence of a class Lock which has acquire() and release() methods. How could you make your implementation thread safe and exception safe?

Design a class which provides a lock only if there are no possible deadlocks

Suppose we have the following code:
  class Foo {
  public:
    A(....).; /* If A is called, a new thread will be created and * the corresponding function will be executed. */
    B(....).; /* same as above */
    C(....).; /* same as above */
  }
  Foo f;
  f.A(....).; 
  f.B(....).; 
  f.C(....).;
i) Can you design a mechanism to make sure that B is executed after A, and C is executed after B?
ii) Suppose we have the following code to use class Foo We do not know how the threads will be scheduled in the OS
  Foo f;
  f.A(....).; f.B(....).; f.C(....).; 
  f.A(....).; f.B(....).; f.C(....).;
Can you design a mechanism to make sure that all the methods will be executed in sequence?

You are given a class with synchronized method A, and a normal method C. If you have two threads in one instance of a program, can they call A at the same time? Can they call A and C at the same time?

Category: Random Moderate

Write a function to swap a number in place without temporary variables

Design an algorithm to figure out if someone has won in a game of tic-tac-toe

Write an algorithm which computes the number of trailing zeros in n factorial

Write a method which finds the maximum of two numbers. You should not use if, else or any other comparison operator
EXAMPLE
Input: 5, 10
Output: 10

The Game of Master Mind is played as follows:
The computer has four slots containing balls that are red (R), yellow (Y), green (G) or blue (B). For example, the computer might have RGGB (e.g., Slot #1 is red, Slots #2 and #3 are green, Slot #4 is blue)
You, the user, are trying to guess the solution. You might, for example, guess YRGB
When you guess the correct color for the correct slot, you get a “hit.” If you guess a color that exists but is in the wrong slot, you get a “pseudo-hit.” For example, the guess YRGB has 2 hits and one pseudo hit
For each guess, you are told the number of hits and pseudo-hits
Write a method that, given a guess and a solution, returns the number of hits and pseudo hits

Given an integer between 0 and 999,999, print an English phrase that describes the integer (e.g., “One Thousand, Two Hundred and Thirty Four”)

You are given an array of integers (both positive and negative). Find the continuous sequence with the largest sum. Return the sum
EXAMPLE
Input: {2, -8, 3, -2, 4, -10}
Output: 5 (i.e., {3, -2, 4} )

Design a method to find the frequency of occurrences of any given word in a book

Since XML is very verbose, you are given a way of encoding it where each tag gets mapped to a pre-defined integer value. The language/grammar is as follows:
Element --> Element Attr* END Element END [aka, encode the element tag, then its attributes, then tack on an END character, then encode its children, then another end tag]
Attr --> Tag Value [assume all values are strings] END --> 01
Tag --> some predefined mapping to int
Value --> string value END
Write code to print the encoded version of an xml element (passed in as string)
FOLLOW UP
Is there anything else you could do to (in many cases) compress this even further?

Write a method to generate a random number between 1 and 7, given a method that generates a random number between 1 and 5 (i.e., implement rand7() using rand5())

Design an algorithm to find all pairs of integers within an array which sum to a specified value

Category: Random Hard

Write a function that adds two numbers. You should not use + or any arithmetic operators

Write a method to shuffle a deck of cards. It must be a perfect shuffle - in other words, each 52! permutations of the deck has to be equally likely. Assume that you are given a random number generator which is perfect

Write a method to randomly generate a set of m integers from an array of size n. Each element must have equal probability of being chosen

Write a method to count the number of 2s between 0 and n

You have a large text file containing words. Given any two words, find the shortest distance (in terms of number of words) between them in the file. Can you make the searching operation in O(1) time? What about the space complexity for your solution?

Describe an algorithm to find the largest 1 million numbers in 1 billion numbers. Assume that the computer memory can hold all one billion numbers

Write a program to find the longest word made of other words in a list of words
EXAMPLE
Input: test, tester, testertest, testing, testingtester
Output: testingtester

Given a string s and an array of smaller strings T, design a method to search s for each small string in T

Numbers are randomly generated and passed to a method. Write a program to find and maintain the median value as new values are generated

Given two words of equal length that are in a dictionary, write a method to transform one word in to another word by changing only one letter at a time. The new word you get in each step must be in the dictionary
EXAMPLE
Input: DAMP, LIKE
Output: DAMP -> LAMP -> LIMP -> LIME -> LIKE

Imagine you have a square matrix, where each cell is filled with either black or white. Design an algorithm to find the maximum subsquare such that all four borders are filled with black pixels

Given an NxN matrix of positive and negative integers, write code to find the submatrix with the largest possible sum

Given a dictionary of millions of words, give an algorithm to find the largest possible rectangle of letters such that every row forms a word (reading left to right) and every column forms a word (reading top to bottom)

